Finally, this year's IPO was something that
many investors had been waiting for.
ICICI Prudential AMC's IPO has
arrived.  In today's video, we will
talk in detail about this IPO from
basic to advanced pointers.  Let's get started.
Rather, some such additional pointers will
also be available.  Some comparison pointers that no
one else is going to discuss.  So
watch the video carefully.  The
company was incorporated in 1993.  Is an asset
management company.  Meaning it is a mutual
fund house.  You people give money to a mutual fund.
Mutual funds
hire fund managers who
manage the money on your behalf.  If
we look at the recent data of last year,
then 90% of the schemes have beaten their benchmark.
So offline their performance has been
quite good.  Also, if I
talk about this fund house as a mutual fund distributor, keeping my biases aside, it is a
very stable fund house.  It is a very big fund
house.  It has been India's
highest managed fund house for a long time.
Which is a good pointer.  Also, the
strategy of this fund house, the statistics, has been
that if the investors get
less returns then it is
absolutely okay but they should not incur loss
because return of capital is more than
return on capital.  So I
generally like his philosophy.  So philosophically this is a
very good fund house.  Is there
any shareholder quota for us in this?  The answer is yes.  There is going to be a
shareholder quota of 5%.
If you hold
ICICI Bank shares in your demat account before the 4th of December,
you are eligible for shareholder quota.
By the way,
I had already given its related information multiple times on our free Telegram channel.
If you have not joined the
channel yet, then the link to the original channel will be
available in the description.  Go and
check it out.  Before I
talk about this IPO.  You will have to tell
me which are the first companies of ICICI
which are already listed in the stock market
and what happened to them.
ICICI Pro Life was listed
in the stock market in 2016.  The issue price was ₹334 and
it was listed at ₹330.  Meaning it was
listed below the issue price.  It was
listed at a discount.  But if someone had
held the shares of ICIC Pro Life till today,
he would have got a CAGR of around 7%.
Just second was ICICI LBT. In 2017, the
company came here for listing.
It was listed at a price of Rs 651 against the price of Rs 661 and
if someone had held here till date, we would have
got a very good CGR of 14.5%.
But at the time of listing, we saw losses here also.  The
final company that
came from the house of ICICI is ICICI
Securities.  Against the issue price of ₹550,
it was again listed at ₹435.  This
means that all three IPOs which
came under the brand name of ICICI were
listed below the issue price.  This
is history.  It is important for me to give you the history data.
And ICICI Securities is a
kind of disaster we can call it.
Because here in 2025, the company was delisted recently in March itself,
you might remember.
Against this,
shares of ICICI Bank were given.  And the
adjusted price value was
taken around 9:30.  If we compare that adjusted price
value, then the CAGR given by
this company from inception till now is roughly 9.7%.
So I have presented the data of these three companies
before you.
He also presented his personal opinion to me regarding AMC.  But at the
same time, we have discussed here what has happened to the three IPOs that have come
from ICICI House
in the past and what kind of performance they have had.
Next let's talk about the
important dates
related to IPO.  So the IPO is going to open
between 12th of December to 16th of December.
Allotment will be decided on 17th.
You will get your refund or your shares on the
18th.  And the tentative listing date is 19th of December.
By the way, a funny
fact is that 19th of December is
also my father i.e. Pankaj Sir's birthday.  So it is a
very interesting thing for me that
ICICI's IPO is going to be listed on Bhaiya Papa's birthday.  The
price band is from Rs 261 to Rs
2165.  If you want to
apply in retail then you will have to type the cut off price and the
price of 2165 in HAI category
and the market capitalization at which the
IPO is trying to be launched
is ₹17000
crore, so this is a big capital size
IPO, if you want to apply for one lot in retail category
then six shares will
come for ₹12990, in
HAI category small you will have to apply
for minimum 16 lots, in HAI big
you will have to apply for 77 lots, here
I have already discussed the price band in front of you.
If we talk about
allocations, then
50% quota is allocated for QIB, 35% for retail and
15% for HAI category.   Let's take a
look at the financials.  The financials are
actually quite good.  You
can take a look here.  Total assets are growing regularly.
Talking about revenue, it is expected to
grow by 32% in 2024 versus 2025.
Profit after tax has also grown by 30%.
Despite being a large AMC,
regular profit growth is being seen
and it will continue to be so because the business of AMC is like this.
As their asset
under management, i.e. how much AUM
they are managing, increases, their income will also
increase.  So as per my expectation, this is going to be
a company where
profitability will grow regularly.
Until and unless they cause a major disaster
and their assets under management get
reduced to the extent they are managing.
So if we talk about the net worth, then from 30th
September 2025, the
net worth is coming out to be roughly around Rs 3921 crore
and the reserve and surplus is also above Rs 3900 crore which is
brilliant. If we
talk about peer comparison here, then the
first among the peers is HDFC AMC whose PE ratio is
45.  Nepon India AMC with PE
ratio of 41, UTI AMC with PE ratio of 20,
Aditya Birla Sunlife AMC with PE
ratio of 22-23.  And ICICI Pidential
AMC is trying to launch its IPO
at a PE ratio of 40 pre-IPO and
post-IPO, this PE ratio will be 33.
So the valuation is fine.  Not very cheap.
Not very expensive.  The
valuation is fine.  On the higher side is
valuation.  You will have to understand this.  But the
EBITDA margin of the company is 0.36% which is
good.  And EPS is post IPO of 65 which is
very good.
I would not call it cheap from any angle valuation wise.   I wouldn't even
say it's very expensive.  And
efforts are being made to bring IPO at a reasonable valuation.
What is your opinion on this IPO? Please
comment and tell me.
If you do not have a Demat account yet
or want to require the services of our team in mutual funds, then
you will find the form in the description.
You can fill the form.
You will get the direct link of demat account in the description.
Finally, the
grey market premium is roughly around ₹100 against the price of ₹2165 on S Sources News Articles.  That
means the grey market premium is still around 4.5%.   There will be a
lot of attention on how the anchor book comes out.  If you
want any more information related to this IPO, please comment with me.  Please
comment what your opinion is.
Complete video is
for information and education purpose only. Do not forget to consult a
financial advisor before doing any work.
Happy
learning and I will see you very soon.